Builds/XCode/README.md, before:

# macos Build Instructions

## Important

We don't recommend OS X for rippled production use at this time. Currently, the
Ubuntu platform has received the highest level of quality assurance and
testing.

## Prerequisites

You'll need OSX 10.8 or later

To clone the source code repository, create branches for inspection or
modification, build rippled using clang, and run the system tests you will need
these software components:

* [XCode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/)
* [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/)
* [Git](http://git-scm.com/)
* [Scons](http://www.scons.org/)

## Install Software

### Install XCode

If not already installed on your system, download and install XCode using the
appstore or by using [this link](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/).

For more info, see "Step 1: Download and Install the Command Line Tools"
[here](http://www.moncefbelyamani.com/how-to-install-xcode-homebrew-git-rvm-ruby-on-mac)

The command line tools can be installed through the terminal with the command:

```
xcode-select --install
```

### Install Homebrew

> "[Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) installs the stuff you need that Apple didn’t."

Open a terminal and type:

```
ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```

For more info, see "Step 3: Install Homebrew"
[here](http://www.moncefbelyamani.com/how-to-install-xcode-homebrew-git-rvm-ruby-on-mac)

### Install Git

```
brew update brew install git
```

For more info, see "Step 4: Install Git"
[here](http://www.moncefbelyamani.com/how-to-install-xcode-homebrew-git-rvm-ruby-on-mac)

**NOTE**: To gain full featured access to the
[git-subtree](http://blogs.atlassian.com/2013/05/alternatives-to-git-submodule-git-subtree/)
functionality used in the rippled repository, we suggest Git version 1.8.3.2 or
later.

### Install Scons

Requires version 2.3.0 or later

```
brew install scons
```

`brew` will generally install the latest stable version of any package, which
will satisfy the scons minimum version requirement for rippled.

### Install Package Config

```
brew install pkg-config
```

## Install/Build/Configure Dependencies

### Build Google Protocol Buffers Compiler

Building rippled on osx requires `protoc` version 2.5.x or 2.6.x (later versions
do not work with rippled at this time).

Download [this](https://github.com/google/protobuf/releases/download/v2.6.1/protobuf-2.6.1.tar.bz2)

We want to compile protocol buffers with clang/libc++:

```
tar xfvj protobuf-2.6.1.tar.bz2
cd protobuf-2.6.1
./configure CC=clang CXX=clang++ CXXFLAGS='-std=c++11 -stdlib=libc++ -O3 -g' LDFLAGS='-stdlib=libc++' LIBS="-lc++ -lc++abi"
make -j 4
sudo make install
```

If you have installed `protobuf` via brew - either directly or indirectly as a
dependency of some other package - this is likely to conflict with our specific
version requirements. The simplest way to avoid conflicts is to uninstall it.
`brew ls --versions protobuf` will list any versions of protobuf
you currently have installed.

### Install OpenSSL

```
brew install openssl
```

### Build Boost

We want to compile boost with clang/libc++

Download [a release](https://sourceforge.net/projects/boost/files/boost/1.61.0/boost_1_61_0.tar.bz2)

Extract it to a folder, making note of where, open a terminal, then:

```
./bootstrap.sh ./b2 toolset=clang threading=multi runtime-link=static link=static cxxflags="-stdlib=libc++" linkflags="-stdlib=libc++" address-model=64
```

Create an environment variable `BOOST_ROOT` in one of your `rc` files, pointing
to the root of the extracted directory.

### Clone the rippled repository

From the terminal

```
git clone git@github.com:ripple/rippled.git
cd rippled
```

Choose the master branch or one of the tagged releases listed on
[GitHub](https://github.com/ripple/rippled/releases GitHub).

```
git checkout master
```

or to test the latest release candidate, choose the `release` branch.

```
git checkout release
```

### Configure Library Paths

If you didn't persistently set the `BOOST_ROOT` environment variable to the
root of the extracted directory above, then you should set it temporarily.

For example, assuming your username were `Abigail` and you extracted Boost
1.61.0 in `/Users/Abigail/Downloads/boost_1_61_0`, you would do for any
shell in which you want to build:

```
export BOOST_ROOT=/Users/Abigail/Downloads/boost_1_61_0
```

## Build

```
scons
```

See: [here](https://ripple.com/wiki/Rippled_build_instructions#Building)

## Unit Tests (Recommended)

rippled builds a set of unit tests into the server executable. To run these unit
tests after building, pass the `--unittest` option to the compiled `rippled`
executable. The executable will exit after running the unit tests.

Commit message:

Change common libs for XCode/apple (RIPD-305):
Removes unnecessary common link libs related to openssl, which we link
to explicitly using finder vars now. THis allows the generated XCode
project to link without error. Tested with CMake 3.9.0 and XCode 8.3.3.

Builds/XCode/README.md, after:

# macos Build Instructions

## Important

We don't recommend macos for rippled production use at this time. Currently, the
Ubuntu platform has received the highest level of quality assurance and
testing. That said, macos is suitable for many development/test tasks.

## Prerequisites

You'll need macos 10.8 or later

To clone the source code repository, create branches for inspection or
modification, build rippled using clang, and run the system tests you will need
these software components:

* [XCode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/)
* [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/)
* [Git](http://git-scm.com/)
* [CMake](http://cmake.org/)

## Install Software

### Install XCode

If not already installed on your system, download and install XCode using the
appstore or by using [this link](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/).

For more info, see "Step 1: Download and Install the Command Line Tools"
[here](http://www.moncefbelyamani.com/how-to-install-xcode-homebrew-git-rvm-ruby-on-mac)

The command line tools can be installed through the terminal with the command:

```
xcode-select --install
```

### Install Homebrew

> "[Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) installs the stuff you need that Apple didn’t."

Open a terminal and type:

```
ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```

For more info, see "Step 3: Install Homebrew"
[here](http://www.moncefbelyamani.com/how-to-install-xcode-homebrew-git-rvm-ruby-on-mac)

### Install Git

```
brew update brew install git
```

For more info, see "Step 4: Install Git"
[here](http://www.moncefbelyamani.com/how-to-install-xcode-homebrew-git-rvm-ruby-on-mac)

**NOTE**: To gain full featured access to the
[git-subtree](http://blogs.atlassian.com/2013/05/alternatives-to-git-submodule-git-subtree/)
functionality used in the rippled repository, we suggest Git version 1.8.3.2 or
later.

### Install Scons

Requires version 3.6.0 or later

```
brew install cmake
```

`brew` will generally install the latest stable version of any package, which
should satisfy the cmake minimum version requirement for rippled.

### Install Package Config

```
brew install pkg-config
```

## Install/Build/Configure Dependencies

### Build Google Protocol Buffers Compiler

Building rippled on osx requires `protoc` version 2.5.x or 2.6.x (later versions
do not work with rippled at this time).

Download [this](https://github.com/google/protobuf/releases/download/v2.6.1/protobuf-2.6.1.tar.bz2)

We want to compile protocol buffers with clang/libc++:

```
tar xfvj protobuf-2.6.1.tar.bz2
cd protobuf-2.6.1
./configure CC=clang CXX=clang++ CXXFLAGS='-std=c++11 -stdlib=libc++ -O3 -g' LDFLAGS='-stdlib=libc++' LIBS="-lc++ -lc++abi"
make -j 4
sudo make install
```

If you have installed `protobuf` via brew - either directly or indirectly as a
dependency of some other package - this is likely to conflict with our specific
version requirements. The simplest way to avoid conflicts is to uninstall it.
`brew ls --versions protobuf` will list any versions of protobuf
you currently have installed.

### Install OpenSSL

```
brew install openssl
```

### Build Boost

We want to compile boost with clang/libc++

Download [a release](https://sourceforge.net/projects/boost/files/boost/1.61.0/boost_1_61_0.tar.bz2)

Extract it to a folder, making note of where, open a terminal, then:

```
./bootstrap.sh ./b2 toolset=clang threading=multi runtime-link=static link=static cxxflags="-stdlib=libc++" linkflags="-stdlib=libc++" address-model=64
```

Create an environment variable `BOOST_ROOT` in one of your `rc` files, pointing
to the root of the extracted directory.

### Clone the rippled repository

From the terminal

```
git clone git@github.com:ripple/rippled.git
cd rippled
```

Choose the master branch or one of the tagged releases listed on
[GitHub](https://github.com/ripple/rippled/releases GitHub).

```
git checkout master
```

or to test the latest release candidate, choose the `release` branch.

```
git checkout release
```

### Configure Library Paths

If you didn't persistently set the `BOOST_ROOT` environment variable to the
root of the extracted directory above, then you should set it temporarily.

For example, assuming your username were `Abigail` and you extracted Boost
1.61.0 in `/Users/Abigail/Downloads/boost_1_61_0`, you would do for any
shell in which you want to build:

```
export BOOST_ROOT=/Users/Abigail/Downloads/boost_1_61_0
```

## Build

```
mkdir xcode_build && cd xcode_build
cmake -GXcode ..
```

There are a number of variables/options that our CMake files support and they
can be added to the above command as needed (e.g. `-Dassert=ON` to enable
asserts)

After generation succeeds, the xcode project file can be opened and used to
build and debug.

## Unit Tests (Recommended)

rippled builds a set of unit tests into the server executable. To run these unit
tests after building, pass the `--unittest` option to the compiled `rippled`
executable. The executable will exit after running the unit tests.
